Your goal in this assignment is to predict whether or not a flight is eligible for a discount.. This will be accomplished by building a prediction model with the use of the training data, and applying it to the testing data.

 

Chapters 16-18 will likely be helpful if you are lost: https://data101-text.cs.rutgers.edu/Rdata10

 

First study the training data set for patterns. For example, one trivial pattern could be, if ‘Ticket Price’ < 50, then ‘Eligible_For_Discount’ is ‘Yes’’. Obviously, the correct solution is significantly more complicated and will require “sub”-patterns/derived attributes. Note that the pattern may not make intuitive sense (Ex: A possible nonsensical pattern could be if the passenger’s first name is less than 4 letters, the eligibility for a discount is automatically considered ‘Yes’).

 

An additional csv located under files called “airport_country_code_mapping.csv” will be necessary.

 

There is no noise in the either dataset. This means that if you have a correct model, your output would be 100% accurate. Yes an overfit decision tree will achieve 100% accuracy, but you should try to find the simplest one possible using derived attributes you create. A simpler model with lower accuracy may score higher than a complex model with perfect accuracy. Effort will be taken into account when grading.

 

After you have found the best/simplest possible model you can, apply it to the testing dataset to determine whether or not a flight is considered “Yes” or “No”.

You are required to submit 3 things. Your code, a brief text file describing your model (what are the four patterns), and your prediction file.

The code file can be submitted in any reasonable format (.R, .ipynb, etc.). Your prediction file should be in .csv format.

 

Hints:
1 Apply airport_country_code_mapping.csv

2 Partition the departure date into day, month, and year

3 Gender and Ticket Price are connected in part of the decision

4 Extremely old and extremely young passengers should be considered

 

Additional Notes:
Try addressing the hints in this order: 4, 2, 3, 1. Each one corresponds to a pattern.
